---
type: events
lang: de
title: 1 to 1 De-escalation (NVC Breathe) + Drama Triangle
slug: 20210623-1to1-deescalation
author: XR Switzerland
branch: Switzerland
publishdate: 2021-06-21T11:00:00+0200
date: 2021-06-23T20:45:00+0200
event_loc_street_name: 
event_loc_street_num: 
event_loc_addressLocality: 
event_loc_addressRegion: 
event_loc_postalCode: 
event_loc_country: 
event_type: talk
image: /media/events/non-violence-deescalation.jpg
thumb: /media/events/thumb/non-violence-deescalation.jpg
online_meeting_url: https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZUlcOugqjIoGtfcDPu7Q5ZjJ35LNLm9Xzq4
external_url: https://www.facebook.com/events/4319165328148370
published: false
---
**Please register on Zoom link.**

Duration: 1 hour 45 mins

Online, interactive workshops looking at nonviolence in the context of activism.

Nonviolence is one of the core principles which is non-negotiable for everyone who wants to take action under the name of XR. De-escalation is a key skill for anyone involved in any action. It helps maintain nonviolent interactions and atmosphere.

XR's nonviolence has both a strategic and ethical dimension:
- Strategically, nonviolence is an effective tool in mass mobilisations, as evidenced by social science research. Upholding nonviolent tension means actively creating a respectful culture and basis for trust whilst also exposing and confronting injustice.
- Ethically, XR takes the view that by undertaking the conscious, often challenging work of removing violence from the way we act and interact, we can connect more deeply and positively with each other and the world around us. Through this deliberate practice, we can model, or 'prefigure', the future we hope to create. 
  
This training will provide:
- a deeper understanding of nonviolence
- a brief introduction to Nonviolent Communication (NVC)
- one-on-one de-escalation with a range of different scenarios
- practical role-playing exercises
- an exploration of our relationship with the roles of the Drama triangle (Victim/Persecutor/Rescuer) and how they generally keep conflict in the stuck realm as opposed to moving towards a more conscious place of potential transformation

To let us know about your accessibility needs or organise a workshop for your regional group, please email:\
[xrnonviolence@gmail.com](mailto:xrnonviolence@gmail.com)

Training resource (handouts and videos):\
<https://tinyurl.com/embeddingnonviolence>

Current training listing:\
<https://www.facebook.com/EmbeddingNonViolence/events/>